[ZIP 226, ZIP 230, ZIP 231] Adding explicit encoding of Orchard note plaintext in ZIP 230 (#1105)
zcash/zips: zips/zip-0230.rst

|                             |                              |                                                |§3.2.1 ‘Note Plaintexts and Memo Fields’.                            |
+-----------------------------+------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Orchard Note Plaintext
----------------------

Each Orchard note plaintext consists of

.. math:: (\mathsf{leadByte} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}}, \mathsf{d} : \mathbb{B}^{[\ell_{\mathsf{d}}]}, \mathsf{v} : \{0 .. 2^{\ell_{\mathsf{value}}} - 1\}, \mathsf{rseed} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}[32]}, \mathsf{asset\_base} : \mathbb{B}^{[\ell_{\mathbb{P}}]}, \mathsf{K^{memo}} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}[32]})

The encoding of an Orchard note plaintext [#protocol-noteptencoding]_ is updated and now consists of the following fields:

$[\mathsf{leadByte}] \,||\, \mathsf{LEBS2OSP}_{88}(\mathsf{d}) \,||\, \mathsf{I2LEOSP}_{64}(\mathsf{v}) \,||\, \mathsf{rseed} \,||\, \mathsf{LEBS2OSP}_{256}(\mathsf{repr}_{\mathbb{P}}(\mathsf{AssetBase})) \,||\, \mathsf{K^{memo}}$

> * The $\mathsf{leadByte}$ MUST be encoded to be $\mathsf{0x03}$ for Orchard note plaintexts in V6 transactions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The $\mathsf{leadByte}$ MUST be $\mathtt{0x03}$ for Orchard note plaintexts in V6 transactions. 
```
It literally is $\mathsf{0x03}$, which is a byte value. To be pedantic, the encoding is the byte sequence $[\mathtt{0x03}]$, but there's no need to say that because line 492 says it.

* The $\mathsf{AssetBase}$ field is added to the Orchard note plaintext, containing the encoding of the Asset Base of the note, as defined in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_.

> * The $\mathsf{K^{memo}}$ field replaces the 512 byte $\mathsf{memo}$ field in the Orchard note plaintext, containing the encoding of the memo key for the note, as defined in ZIP 231 [#zip-0231-memo-encryption]_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The $\mathsf{K^{memo}}$ component replaces the 512 byte $\mathsf{memo}$ component in the Orchard note plaintext, containing the encoding of the memo key for the note, as defined in ZIP 231 [#zip-0231-memo-encryption]_.
```
Here the memo key is a byte sequence so it is encoded as itself. But we call it a component rather than a field (I guess this is a distinction without very much difference; it's because the note is a tuple).

Orchard Note Plaintext
----------------------

Each Orchard note plaintext consists of

.. math:: (\mathsf{leadByte} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}}, \mathsf{d} : \mathbb{B}^{[\ell_{\mathsf{d}}]}, \mathsf{v} : \{0 .. 2^{\ell_{\mathsf{value}}} - 1\}, \mathsf{rseed} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}[32]}, \mathsf{asset\_base} : \mathbb{B}^{[\ell_{\mathbb{P}}]}, \mathsf{K^{memo}} : \mathbb{B}^{\mathbb{Y}[32]})

The encoding of an Orchard note plaintext [#protocol-noteptencoding]_ is updated and now consists of the following fields:

+---------------------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| 8 bit :math:`\mathsf{leadByte}` | 88 bit :math:`\mathsf{d}` | 64 bit :math:`\mathsf{v}` | 256 bit :math:`\mathsf{rseed}` | 256 bit :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}` | 256 bit :math:`\mathsf{K^{memo}}` |
+---------------------------------+---------------------------+---------------------------+--------------------------------+------------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> * The $\mathsf{leadByte}$ is now encoded to be $\mathsf{0x03}$ for Orchard note plaintexts post the NU7 network upgrade. 

Author: As in https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/1105/files#r2430534765, moving to using "V6 transactions"
